Add incubation proposal (#16)
karmada-io/community: cncf_process/incubation_proposal/incubation_proposal.md

# Karmada proposal for CNCF Incubation

## Table of Contents

* [About Karmada](#about-karmada)
  * [Sandbox Acceptance](#sandbox-acceptance)
* [Progress Since Sandbox](#progress-since-sandbox)
  * [Continous Community Momentum](#continous-community-momentum)
  * [Robust Developer Ecosystem](#robust-developer-ecosystem)
  * [Expanding Technology](#expanding-technology)
* [Incubation Stage Requirements](#incubation-stage-requirements)
* [Statement on Alignment with the CNCF Mission](#statement-on-alignment-with-the-cncf-mission)
* [Future Plan](#future-plan)

## About Karmada

Karmada (Kubernetes Armada) is a Kubernetes management system that enables you to run your cloud-native applications across multiple Kubernetes clusters and clouds, with no changes to your applications. By speaking Kubernetes-native APIs and providing advanced scheduling capabilities, Karmada enables truly open, multi-cloud Kubernetes.

> Karmada aims to provide turnkey automation for multi-cluster application management in multi-cloud and hybrid cloud scenarios, with key features such as centralized multi-cloud management, high availability, failure recovery, and traffic scheduling.

Author: I wonder if here should introduce the architecture of Karmada.

Before our journey of developing Karmada, we were deeply engaged in the KubeFed project led by the Kubernetes multi-cluster SIG.
Such engagement brought us insights and expertise to develop Karmada. Karmada is built based on Kubernetes Federation v1 and v2 and inherits some basic concepts from them.
We also marked our presence in upstream communities.

- In the Kubernetes community, we led the design of the [work API](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/work-api) for multi-cluster deployments. Our contributions make us the [maintainers of this project](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/work-api/blob/master/OWNERS).
  Meanwhile, we are actively involved in the [mcs-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/mcs-api) and [about-api](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/about-api) projects hosted by Kubernetes multi-cluster SIG.
  We are also one of the earliest projects to adopt the above APIs of the upstream communities. Our users can easily use them in Karmada. For example, we provide [multi-cluster service discovery](https://karmada.io/docs/next/userguide/service/multi-cluster-service) based on multi-cluster service APIs.

> - Besides Kubernetes, we are open to intergration of more CNCF projects and already have some amazing cases (details available [here](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/cncf_process/2022_karmada_annual/2022-karmada-annual.md#rich-integration)).

Reviewer: intergration => integration ?

Author: Nice finding!

* **Easier to manage the cluster and the resources on the cluster**. In the past year, we introduced a global uniform resource view across clusters.
  - We enhanced the framework of the resource interpreter to enable users to customize the resource status collected to the control plane.
  - We introduced the aggregated API to allow users to connect and operate member clusters from the control plane.
  - We introduced a new component `karmada-search` to implement global search and global proxy for multi-cluster resources.
    Based on this, users no longer have to deal with tedious and repetitive configuration management, nor to endure the management costs caused by fragmented API access portals.
* **More convenient cross-cluster service governance**. We support multi-cluster service discovery and a one-stop multi-cluster network solution. Now users can enable service governance for cross-cluster with Karmada.
* **High availability for multi-cloud applications**. We support cross-cluster failover of applications.

>   When a cluster fails, applications can smoothly migrate from the failed cluster to another available cluster. During the replicas migration process, Karmada ensures that the service replicas do not drop to zero, thereby ensuring that the service will not be interrupted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When a cluster fails, applications can smoothly migrate to an available cluster. During replica migration, Karmada ensures that the service replicas do not drop to zero, thereby ensuring that the service will not be interrupted.
```

  Based on this, users can use Karmada to manage distributed applications with confidence.
* **Smoother multi-cluster O&M experience**. In the past year, We continue to optimize our command line tools. Now users can complete the creation of the Karmada control plane and bootstrap token-based cluster registration in just a few clicks.
  Meanwhile, we provide not only a smooth version upgrade path but also a clear approach to migrate from Kubefed or promote legacy workloads from Kubernetes.

## Incubation Stage Requirements

**_Document that it is being used successfully in production by at least three independent end users which, in the TOC’s judgement, are of adequate quality and scope._**

> Now Karmada now has 11 adopters that using Karmada in `production` environments as of Oct 25, 2022. The full adopter list can be found in our [website](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/adopters).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11 adopters are using Karmada in their `production` environments as of Oct 25, 2022. The full adopter list can be found on our [website](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/adopters).
```

Highlighted examples include:

> * **[VIPKID](https://www.vipkid.com/)**: Use Karmada to build a multi-cloud PaaS platform with multi-vendor and multi-region. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/vipkid).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **[VIPKID](https://www.vipkid.com/)**: Uses Karmada to build a multi-cloud, multi-vendor PaaS platform across regions. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/vipkid).
```

> * **[ICBC](http://www.icbc.com.cn/icbc/)**: Use Karmada to build a multi-cloud platform to manage **100** Kubernetes clusters and more than **280,000** containers. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/zh/blog/2022/03/22/multi-cluster-management-with-an-ocean-of-nodes/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **[ICBC](http://www.icbc.com.cn/icbc/)**: Uses Karmada to build a multi-cloud platform to manage **100** Kubernetes clusters and more than **280,000** containers. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/zh/blog/2022/03/22/multi-cluster-management-with-an-ocean-of-nodes/).
```

Reviewer 2: Replace the links with the English ones for all customer cases.

Author: AIML INSTITUTE only has Chinese website.

> * **[Vivo](https://www.vivo.com/)**: Build a more resilient and elastic hybrid-multi-cloud platform using Karmada.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **[Vivo](https://www.vivo.com/)**: Builds a more resilient and elastic multi-cloud platform using Karmada.
```

> * **[Trip.com](https://www.trip.com/)**: Use Karmada to build a multi-cloud platform with cross-cluster auto scaling and scheduling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **[Trip.com](https://www.trip.com/)**: Uses Karmada to build a multi-cloud platform with cross-cluster auto scaling and scheduling.
```

> * **[AIML INSTITUTE](https://orang.cloud/)**: Uses Karmada to build multi-cluster platform with heterogeneous resources and clusters. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/ci123).

Reviewer 3: Please sync the latest usage scenario from website.

Author: Updated.

> * **AIML INSTITUTE**: Use Karmada to build multi-cluster platform with heterogeneous resources and clusters. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/ci123).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **AIML INSTITUTE**: Uses Karmada to build multi-cluster platform with heterogeneous resources and clusters. The use case details can be found [here](https://karmada.io/docs/next/casestudies/ci123).
```

> * **[Huawei Cloud](https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/zh-cn/)**: Huawei Cloud's UCS(Ubiquitous Cloud Native Service) adopts Karmada to connect and manage cross-cloud and cross-region clusters and the cloud native applications running in them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **[Huawei Cloud](https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/zh-cn/)**: Huawei Cloud's UCS (Ubiquitous Cloud Native Service) adopts Karmada to connect and manage cross-cloud and cross-region clusters and the cloud native applications running in them.
```

There are 70 project members for Karmada, out of which there are 7 [maintainers](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md), 23 [approvers/reviewers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/REVIEWERS.md) from 15 different organizations.

**_Demonstrate a substantial ongoing flow of commits and merged contributions._**

A short summary has been provided in [#Continous Community Momentum](#continous-community-momentum). Detailed statistics can be found in the following devstats links:

* [Commit Activity](https://karmada.devstats.cncf.io/d/74/contributions-chart?orgId=1&from=now-1y&to=now)
* [New contributors since sandbox](https://karmada.devstats.cncf.io/d/52/new-contributors-table?orgId=1&from=1631635200000&to=now)
* [Issues open/closed since sandbox](https://karmada.devstats.cncf.io/d/12/issues-opened-closed-by-repository-group?orgId=1&from=1631635200000&to=now)
* [PRs open/closed since sandbox](https://karmada.devstats.cncf.io/d/12/issues-opened-closed-by-repository-group?orgId=1&from=1631635200000&to=now)
* [Contributing organizations](https://karmada.devstats.cncf.io/d/5/companies-table?orgId=1)

**_A clear versioning scheme._**

> Karmada uses the [semantic versioning scheme](https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-specification-semver). Karmada follows roughly once every three months release cadence with version numbers using format of MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH. The latest release is v1.3.1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Karmada uses the [semantic versioning scheme](https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-specification-semver). Karmada releases updates every three months with version number in the format of MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH. The latest release is v1.3.1.
```

We have releases documented at: https://karmada.io/docs/next/releases

**_Clearly documented security processes explaining how to report security issues to the project, and describing how the project provides updated releases or patches to resolve security vulnerabilities_**

Karmada has a responsible and mature vulnerability submission and disclosure program, managed by the Karmada Security Team. The processes are documented at https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/security-team/SECURITY.md.

## Statement on Alignment with the CNCF Mission

> According to the survey, more than 93% of enterprises are using the services of multiple cloud vendors at the same time. Cloud native technologies and the cloud market continue to mature, and multi-cloud and multi-cluster deployments have become the norm. The future will be the era of programmatic multi-cloud management services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
According to the survey, more than 93% of enterprises are using the services of multiple cloud vendors at the same time. Cloud native technologies and the cloud market continue to mature, and multi-cloud and multi-cluster deployments have become the norm. The future will be the era of programmatic multi-cloud management services.
```
```suggestion
As surveyed, more than 93% of enterprises are using the services of multiple cloud vendors at the same time. Cloud native technologies and the cloud market continue to mature. Multi-cloud and multi-cluster deployments become the choice of future.
```

Karmada aims to provide turnkey automation for multi-cluster application management in multi-cloud and hybrid cloud scenarios, with key features such as centralized multi-cloud management, high availability, failure recovery, and traffic scheduling.
With Karmada, users can not only evolve from a single-cluster architecture to a multi-cloud one smoothly, but also customize their own multi-cloud platforms with a variety of policy sets.

> We believe it strictly aligns with the mission of CNCF in empowering organizations to build and run applications in modern cloud-native environments and benefit from the large growing cloud native technologies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Karmada strictly aligns with the mission of CNCF in empowering organizations to build and run applications in modern cloud native environments and benefit from the evolving cloud native technologies.
```

## Future Plan

The Karmada project continues to grow and has its sight on short-term and long-term goals:

* **Multi-cluster security**. Multi-cluster security presents many challenges.
  - Karmada manages clusters centrally, which eases cluster management but brings some security risks.
    The aim is to minimize the permissions of the control plane and reduce blast radius to member clusters after a control plane failure.
  - Another target is on multi-cluster access control with finer-grained security isolation on the control plane.

> * **Larger scale landing**. We have started early on improving user experience in large-scale scenarios in the past releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Larger scale implementation**. We have been working on improving user experience in large-scale scenarios with the previous releases.
```

> * **Larger scale implementation**. We have been working on improving user experience in large-scale scenarios with the previous releases.
>   Multicloud means larger resource pools, which brings greater performance pressure to the multi-cloud management platform.
>   In large-scale scenarios, we will continue to reduce the access latency, resources consumed, and stability impact on the system under high concurrency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Larger scalability**. We have been working on improving user experience in large-scale scenarios with the previous releases.
  Multicloud means larger resource pools, which brings greater performance pressure to the multi-cloud management platform.
  In large-scale scenarios, we will continue to reduce the access latency, resources consumed, and stability impact on the system under high concurrency.
```

> * **Multi-cluster observability**. Multi-cluster observability is an important part in a multi-cluster orchestration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Multi-cluster observability**. Multi-cluster observability is an important part in a multi-cluster orchestration. We will continue to:
```

>   - We will continue to explore integrated solutions for multi-cloud monitoring and logging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Explore integrated solutions for multi-cloud monitoring and logging.
```

>   - We will continue to optimize multi-cluster events so that users can better maintain the multi-cloud management platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Optimize multi-cluster events so that users can better maintain the multi-cloud management platform.
```
